This is my Bible.
I am what it says that I am.
I can do what it says I can do.
I can have what it says I can have.
Today, I will be taught the uncompromised Word of God.
My mind's alert.
My heart's receptive.
I won't leave the same as I came in Jesus' name.
And every time I come to church on the rock, my faith and my life gets stronger and stronger.
Oh, let's thank God for the word.
Can you thank you for the word today?
Amen.
Well, we're closing out a series this whole month on a spirit-filled church.
And we've been defining what a spirit-filled church looks like.
And let me just say I'm the founding pastor, Kim and I of 42 years ago, we planted this church from then to now, it's always been, always will be a spirit filled church.
If you haven't been with us, you can go to our website, it's free.
We used to charge for it, but now it's free.
We used to have cassette tapes and we charge for them.
Then we got revelation and we moved to CDs and we charge for them.
I don't know if you remember, after the services, there'd be lines of people all through the lobby to get the CD of the service.
I saw that as hunger for the Word of God.
But some people couldn't afford it, so now we made it, it's actually free, the teaching.
It's free for you, so thank you for those seven people who are excited about the Word, amen.
encouraging, hallelujah.
So a Spirit-filled church, we've looked at what that is, we've defined it, we've talked about it, we're gonna conclude today, but why have I taught on this series, the why?
Now seriously, if you'll give me just 30 minutes, and again, think about it now, think about my challenge.
Seriously, we're all on the internet more than 30 minutes throughout the week, and we come here and we get 30 minutes to reprogram our thinking, get the right perspective,
Well, we need the Holy Spirit.
We need the Holy Spirit, the presence of a living God to do that, amen.
So why this whole month we ended today?
And we're just excited about Richard Montia's last week.
Yeah, Richard.
And you know, when Richard first came here, I had him speak at our dream team banquet and we went out and he went to go to Cracker Barrel.
And so Kim and I took him and his wife out to Cracker Barrel.
And I showed up in a denim jacket.
He had a denim jacket.
He said, I knew you were my people.
And then so we got talking about, he lives in LA.
It's a car scene.
And so we got talking about, he's a classic car guy too.
I don't know if you knew that or not.
His son has a classic car that goes to shows and wins all kinds of awards.
So their whole family's in the classic cars.
I'm in the classic cars.
We're two or three.
Praise God.
We just hit it off.
Amen.
Praise God.
So why would I teach this whole month?
Number one, for you and I together to have a greater relationship with the Holy Spirit.
A lot of people don't know, but the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, God the Father's in heaven, God the Son is at the right hand of the Father, creating your mansion for you in heaven.
So the only part of the Trinity on the earth is the Holy Spirit.
Jesus said, and John, right before he was crucified, the night before he was crucified, the night before he was crucified.
John 14, 15, and 16 is the last supper.
The night before he was crucified, he said, I've got to go away, but for your advantage, I'm going to send another one just like me, the Holy Spirit, okay?
So the Holy Spirit is the only one of the Trinity on the planet.
So we need to have a greater relationship with the Holy Spirit, right?
Greater relationship.
And so 2 Corinthians 13, 14, look at the overheads.
You can see this, the grace, favor and spiritual blessing of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God.
And look at this and the presence of God.
Wow.
And the fellowship
Communion sharing together and participation.
Look at this in the Holy Spirit be with you all a man.
So what is he saying there?
He's saying you and I need to learn how to fellowship.
What is fellowship to fellows in a ship?
Fellowship with the Holy Spirit.
My question to you, have you done that lately?
Have you talked to the Holy Spirit?
Have you surrendered to him daily?
Have you asked him for help?
Have you got to know him?
His nature, last two weeks ago, I talked about the seven names of the Holy Spirit, which is the nature of the Holy Spirit.
If you want to hear, download that.
I share with you the characteristics, like I just shared with you about Richard Montes, some of his nature, his likes lined up with my nature and my likes.
So we fellowship.
We'll text one another back and forth when we go to California.
In fact, he left me a note.
He bought me a pendulum shirt.
He said, here, pastor, this is a car guy's shirt.
I want you to wear it when you come to California.
Let's hang out together.
Well, how does that fellowship happen?
I know some of his likes and dislikes.
He knows some of my likes and dislikes.
So we hang.
We understand each other.
Do you understand the Holy Spirit, His operation, what grieves Him?
what hurts him, what he rejoices with, and that's what this is talking about, and that's why I've been teaching on it, because if you're not a fellowshiping with a Holy Spirit, you're missing out on a whole lot.
In fact, you're doing most of what you're doing in the flesh, and that's why you're stressed out.
Number two, why would I teach the whole month on a spirit-filled church is so you can live your best life, so you can live your best life.
The Bible says in 1 John 4, you need to know this verse so you can confess it.
I confess it almost every day, 1 John 4, 4.
Greater, let's practice, greater is he that is in me than he that is in the world.
You need to say that every day.
You're recognizing the Holy Spirit.
You're recognizing that he's within you, okay?
The greater one is within you.
to face your challenges, your obstacles, conflict, stress, pressure, being overwhelmed.
So I've been talking about what a Spirit-filled church looks like and a Spirit-filled believer looks like this whole month so that you can live your best life.
And the season that you're in now won't be less than the last season, but the season you're in now will be better than the last season.
Doesn't the Bible tell us
We go from glory to glory.
We don't go from glory to less glory.
You don't go from a good season to a bad season.
That's not God's will for your life.
So to live your best, to live your best life, okay?
Joel to 28.
Look at the screens.
It will come to pass afterwards that I will pour out my Holy Spirit upon all flesh.
Black people, white people, brown people, skinny people, fat people, rich people, poor people.
I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and look at this, a spirit filled church is tri-generational.
If you've noticed, I put on the platform, young people, middle aged people, and mature people.
You're not looking up here at me, right?
I can tell.
I put on the platform, we have young people, we got middle-aged people, and we got mature people.
You with me?
You look around in our ministry, I tell our staff, I want all three age groups.
And I'm not the kind of church where it's just for young people, and they push the old people out.
Or it's just old people, and they don't want to change, and don't want to turn things over to young people.
You see what I'm doing with Daniel, okay?
Follow my model.
So it's tri-generational.
A spirit-filled church is tri-generational.
It's three generations, children's ministry, youth ministry, seniors' ministry, middle-aged ministry.
It shall come to pass after, I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and here's what, your sons and your daughters will prophesy.
Your old men will dream dreams.
If you're not a dreamer, you won't live your best life.
You need holy spirit given
Right?
And then it says, your old men shall dream dreams.
Look, thirdly and young, men will see visions.
The Holy Spirit helps us dream dreams and have visions.
The Holy Spirit will show you things to come in your life.
You won't need a Ouija board or tarot cards.
You won't need a witch, okay?
Because if you have the Holy Spirit on the inside of you,
He will give you dreams, he will give you visions and he'll show you things to come so you can live your best life.
Amen.
And if you're not a dreamer, hang out with our family here at Church of the Rock and you should be getting dreams and bigger dreams, not less.
Why am I teaching on it?
Number three, so you can live a life of greater impact.
You can live a life of greater significance
and success fulfilling God's will and purpose for your life.
So you can live a life of greater impact.
People who think they're not significant commit suicide.
People who think a life worth living are average and they just get by struggling from week to week, okay?
So those are three reasons that I have been teaching this whole month and you gotta look at the whole series now.
So I'm only gonna give you two big ideas today, okay?
Everybody say big ideas.
A spirit-filled believer is intentional with two things.
More than that, but I'm just gonna give you two, okay?
A spirit-filled, now you understand you can't get born again without the Holy Spirit.
I learned a big word in college, regeneration.
Regeneration, it means get born again.
We can't get born again through works.
We try to be good enough.
You only get born again by and through the Holy Spirit, born of the Spirit.
We call that the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.
Most Christians stop there.
Most Christians stop there, but not in a spirit field church.
We know there's more than just getting saved.
There's more than just getting born again.
There's more.
You move on to the infilling of the Holy Spirit.
And I talked about that in this series, what that means to be baptized in the Holy Spirit, to have a prayer language and all that happens there, okay?
So everyone say, indwelling and infilling.
Don't stop with the indwelling.
You want to be hungry.
You want to go for more.
That's the culture of church on the rock.
I share with you a couple weeks ago the gym that Daniel and I are a part of.
and how it's not an average gym.
It's for fire breathers, those who want more, not content, just going, you know, a couple days a week, okay?
Well, Church of the Rock, we're not just content of coming on Sunday.
You realize we only meet once a week?
Somebody needs to start a Wednesday night service.
I don't know who needs to do that, but somebody needs to get in gear, I'll tell you, okay?
So a spirit filled church, all right?
It's intentional on developing the fruit of the Spirit.
the fruit of the Spirit.
Do you know that our number one goal as Christians is not to make money, start a family, build a business, retire?
That our number one priority as a Christian is to be conformed into the image of Jesus.
The four Christian were not to be, you know, a rock star or performer or religious or play games or be judgmental or all the above.
No, a Christian, a born again, spirit-filled believer is intentional on every day developing the fruit of the spirit.
And notice it doesn't say fruits.
Now, there are some granola Christians
fruits, flakes, and nuts, but they don't come to church on the rock.
If you're visiting, we just want you to know that, okay?
So everyone say they're fruit of the Spirit.
So a Spirit-filled Christian, that's what you should be working on every day, because if I'm not in the fruit of the Spirit, I can't be led by the Spirit.
So in other words, if I'm opposite of these nine fruit,
My emotions are opposite of these nine fruit.
I can't hear God.
I can hear other voices, but I can't hear God.
So developing the fruit of the Spirit, then I can be led by the Spirit and make the best decisions.
But I say, walk, live habitually.
So this is a habit.
These are habits, okay?
walk, live habitually in the Holy Spirit.
Be responsive to the Holy Spirit.
Be controlled, not by your emotions, but by the Holy Spirit.
Be guided, not by the internet or the trends, by the Holy Spirit.
Then you will certainly not gratify the cravings, desires of your flesh.
So everyone say habitually,
Okay, controlled, led by the Holy Spirit.
Okay, then verse 25 on the screens, Galatians 5, 25.
If we live by the Holy Spirit, now you understand that he's talking to Christians, the church at Galatia, this is a local church.
So that means that there can be Christians who are led by the Holy Spirit and Christians who are not.
led by the Holy Spirit.
There are Christians who are filled with the Holy Spirit, and there are Christians who are not filled with the Holy Spirit.
So the big idea is every day a spirit-filled Christian should be intentionally get up in the morning and say, Holy Spirit, make me like Jesus today.
Help me to be conformed into his character and his image, the fruit of the Spirit.
Don't let me be led by my emotions, my circumstances, my own desires,
but let me be led by the Holy Spirit.
So to be led by the Holy Spirit, I've got to be developing the fruit of the Spirit.
You with me, family?
So if we live by the Holy Spirit, let us also walk by the Holy Spirit.
If by the Holy Spirit, we have our life, best life, best life.
If by the Holy Spirit, we have our life, best life, abundant life, overcoming life, satisfied life, fulfilled life,
If by the Holy Spirit we have our life in God, let us go forward, keep moving forward.
Spirit-filled Christians have a vision and a dream in front of them, and they keep moving forward.
Let us go forward walking in line with, look at this, in our conduct.
Everyone want to say conduct?
Control by the Holy Spirit.
So for me to be led by the Holy Spirit, I've got to submit my conduct, my reactions, my responses, my perception, my outlook, my attitude.
I've got to submit my conduct and conversation to the Holy Spirit.
If I want to be led by the Holy Spirit and live my best life, make the best decisions, who I marry, where I work, what I buy, what I invest, where do I go, the church I attend, if I want to make the best decisions, then I've got to turn my conduct over to the Holy Spirit to be controlled by Him.
You see it with me, family?
Okay.
So now let's look at the fruit, not fruits, fruit.
So when you get one, you get all nine.
Everyone say this with me.
Most Christians don't know it.
There are nine fruit of the Spirit.
Now, if I'm not getting up intentionally and tomorrow morning working on these nine, walking in these nine, if I'm opposite, one says joy.
So if I get up tomorrow morning and I'm sad and I'm depressed and I'm stressed out, then tomorrow I can't hear the Holy Spirit.
I'll be led by the flesh, the media, the internet, my feelings, my friends, my past, everything else but the Holy Spirit.
I've got to be working on the fruit of the Spirit and to be controlled by the Holy Spirit, to be led by the Holy Spirit.
Am I making sense today?
So the fruit of the Holy Spirit, everyone say nine.
This is the work of His presence.
Oh my goodness.
the work of his presence.
So if I'm anointed, his presence is his anointing and he's here right now.
So if I'm in his presence, I'm in his anointing, the fruit of that will be these nine.
If I'm walking, not if I'm a rock star up here and I have the latest trend, the latest worship, the latest CD, the latest concert, that doesn't move me.
So what do you, what do that person act like on Monday morning?
What's their attitude?
What's their conduct?
What's their conversation?
How do they treat their family, their friends?
What's their work ethic?
How do they respond to adversity?
Do they have grit?
Do they have resilience?
Are they an overcomer or a victim?
Are they always blaming people?
Are they always criticizing?
Are they sarcastic?
Those are all the opposite of these nine.
Are they unfaithful?
Do they not come to church?
Do they not fellowship with the body of Christ?
Spirit-filled Christians attend the local church.
They're faithful.
If I'm unfaithful, I'm not in the Spirit.
Okay.
Aren't you glad I came back from here?
So look, the fruit of the Holy Spirit, which His presence or anointing will accomplish.
Here they are.
It's called the law of first reference.
So look what the very first fruit of the spirit, I've got to work on tomorrow morning, love.
See how that went over?
Pastor, you don't know where I work.
I got a bunch of really crazy nuts where I went.
Pastor, you don't know that school, my teacher, my pastor, you don't know my neighbor.
Pastor, you don't know my husband.
Oh, it's getting really convicting here today, isn't it?
Is this helping?
Yeah, I hope it's helping, yeah.
This is the answer.
I've been doing this all my life.
This is the answer for a marriage conflict, for work conflict, school conflict, neighbor conflict.
This is the answer.
If I'm walking in love, I'm not causing stress and strife in the body of Christ or in my family or where I work.
Praise God.
Love, everyone say love.
So if I'm a hanter, you shouldn't be a partaker of hanter.
You shouldn't have a hate mentality.
So the opposite of love would be, so anytime I'm painting people, I'm painting this, I'm painting that, I'm not walking in the fruit of the Spirit, I'm not controlled by the Holy Spirit, I'm gonna make wrong decisions.
Secondly is joy, gladness.
Oh my goodness, if I'm depressed all the time, manic depressive, gotta go through this and that and the other all the time, just keep my attitude up.
Well, I need a spiritual, I need an awakening in my life.
I need to understand the Holy Spirit that when He comes in, He helps me develop these things.
I can't do them on my own, the nine fruit of the Spirit, peace.
If I'm calling strife and stress in the church, the body of Christ and my family where I work, I'm not in the Spirit, because when I'm in the Spirit, I'm a peacemaker.
If I'm in the Spirit, I'm preaching the truth, you guys.
If I'm in the spirit, I'm a peacemaker.
I'm not going on social media and causing strife.
Look at the next one.
If I'm in the spirit, I'm walking in patience.
If I'm in the spirit, look at this, even temper forbearance, long suffering, kindness.
If I'm in the spirit, I'm not rude.
If I'm in the spirit, look at this goodness, believers generosity.
If I'm in this spirit, look at this, faithfulness.
I come to church more than once a month.
I come to church more than twice.
Since COVID, oh my goodness.
If I'm in this spirit, then I'm faithful where I work.
I'm faithful in my church.
I'm faithful to my maid.
I'm faithful to God.
If I'm in the fruit of the Spirit, now, when we get born again, the Holy Spirit comes in to help us intentionally work on these every day, the nine fruit of the Spirit.
Being intentional, boy, thank you, Lord.
Gentleness, wow, meekness, which is humility, be a lifelong.
You know, I've done a lot of marriage counseling and 42 years in this church.
And the number one problem for divorce is a stubborn heart.
Hallelujah.
Come on now.
I didn't say it.
Jesus said it in the book of Mark.
He quotes Moses and they came to him about divorce and remarriage and Jesus, not blood.
Jesus said divorce is because of the stubbornness of their heart and willing to change and wanting to adapt.
Well, you get free counseling right now.
Okay.
The humility, look at this, a fruit of the Spirit, self-control.
I'm not going to freak out.
I'm going to lose my temper.
Now, do we?
Yeah.
But we have the Holy Spirit to help us do less.
Self-control, look at that.
Against such things, there is no law that can bring a charge.
So number one, big idea.
Love.
Look at the overhead.
Look at the screen.
Love.
So tomorrow morning we want to work on that.
Joy.
Tomorrow morning we want to work on that.
Peace throughout the day.
We'll have an opportunity to lose our peace and give somebody a piece of our... And you know what I'm going to say, right?
We don't have enough to give any...
Okay.
Long suffering.
Gentleness.
Goodness.
That's generosity.
Faithfulness.
meekness and self-control.
Family, this is what you and I and Christians should be working on, not getting at each other's stuff, but we should be working on this individually every day.
This is what Christianity is all about.
It's not a show, it's not a performance, it's a journey, it's a lifestyle, it's called the abundant life.
And when I am intentional every day, because every day we're gonna have an opportunity, right, to use one of the fruit of the Spirit.
Okay, the number two big idea is that a Spirit-filled Christian, a Spirit-filled believer is intentional on the gifts of the Spirit.
So when we say the fruit of the Spirit works on my, this isn't gonna work.
Not enough of you are saying it, I'm going back to California, praise God.
Okay, let's try it one more time now.
Remember, I only got you 45 minutes, give me a break, okay?
So say it with me, a Spirit-filled Christian works on the fruit of the Spirit, which is my character.
And God promotes your character, not your charisma or your color.
He promotes character.
So the fruit of the Spirit
works on our character.
And that's why people say, well, I don't want to be one of those Christians because they're hypocrites.
What they actually don't know is that that Christian isn't working on daily the nine fruit of the Spirit, okay?
Remember I started off earlier that there are Christians who are not Spirit-filled and Christians who are.
There are Christians who act like Christians and there are Christians who act like the world, okay?
Now the gifts of the Spirit are for power.
See that with me.
The gifts of the Spirit are for power.
So you want a life of character and you want a life of power.
Like Pastor Kim said, we were on vacation, as you know, the last two weeks in Daniel and I and Stephen and Ethan, we walked into this one store.
Actually, I was looking for sunglasses and we walked into the store and I was gonna purchase the sunglasses all of a sudden,
We heard this lady scream out.
She said, Mom, Mom, wake up.
Mom, wake up.
The whole place got silent.
All the people who were working in there looked, and at the front door, there was a lady, evidently with her mother in a wheelchair, and her head was over.
And she said, Mom, wake up, wake up.
She wasn't responding.
Mom, come on, please wake up.
And then the lady said,
Somebody, somebody call, you know, 911, somebody call because the people that were there, they were just, everybody was startled and they were screaming and she kept saying, Mom, please wake up and the lady was in the wheelchair and her head was like this.
She wasn't moving.
Nothing was happening.
And if I'm lying to her friend, that went on, didn't it, Daniel, for several seconds?
Nothing was going on.
And under our breath, this is the God be the glory, Spirit led.
Under our breath, I just said,
In Jesus' name, in Jesus' name, I command life to come back to her.
In Jesus' name, I rebuke the spirit of death off of her.
And nothing happened for a few more seconds and they were waiting for the medics to get there and people were just standing and looking and her head was bent over.
And then all of a sudden, she came back to life.
All of a sudden, or whatever.
They thought she was gone.
What is that, a gift of the Spirit?
What is that power?
What is that, the gift of faith?
One of the nine gifts of the Holy Spirit.
Do we have to, oh my goodness, oh my goodness.
Look at 1 Corinthians 12, one.
So the big idea is you want to work every day as a spiritual Christian on your character, which is the nine fruit of the Spirit that will carry you through, whatever you're going through.
And then you want to work on the nine gifts of the Holy Spirit.
And the door to the gifts is being baptized in the Holy Spirit with prayer language.
That opens the door to the supernatural.
I need the super on my natural.
I need the super on my natural tomorrow morning.
So now you want to know what these nine are.
A lot of Christians can't even name them.
Have no clue what they are.
Now about spiritual gifts, the special endowments of supernatural energy, I don't want you to be misinformed as the team comes out.
But earnestly desire, so a Spirit-filled church, the people who go there, want the gifts of the Spirit.
The people who go there want to develop their character.
They want to get better and they want to walk in power.
They want God to put his super on their natural as a husband, as a wife, a mom, a dad, a teenager, a college student.
So look at this, you're to desire them and then you're to cultivate them.
You're to desire these nine spiritual gifts.
Verse Corinthians 12, verse eight,
And we're going to list them real quick, the nine, because most Christians can't even list them.
For one is given by the Holy Spirit.
Here's number one, a word of wisdom.
Here's number two, a word of knowledge, verse nine.
Here's number three, faith.
And that's the gift of faith.
And then here's another one, healing or heal, lings by the same spirit.
To another, the working of miracles, does anybody need a miracle today?
You see, when you develop yourself in the fruit of the Spirit, character, then God contrasts you with the power of the Spirit, the gifts.
And then as you need them throughout the week, as I've only got you for 45 minutes, they'll show up as the Spirit leads in your set of circumstances.
Notice that one of the gift of the spirit is miracles.
Spirit-filled churches believe in miracles.
Another is prophecy.
Another is the discernment of spirits.
And eight and nine is the gift of tongues.
That's different than your prayer language.
And then the interpretation of tongues.
But all of these are given by the spirit, dividing as he wills.
So look at the screen, the nine are, and if you walk away and you just take a snapshot of that, you're smarter than the average Christian.
So say it with me, character and power.
Pastor, how could that preacher, I saw on TV, moved in the gifts?
Pastor, how could a Jimmy Swaggard, how could a James Baker, how could all these churches that were seeing fold right now, megatures, pastors, and they got thousands coming to their church, pastor, they move in the gifts.
What's the problem?
Character.
They've developed themselves in the gifts, but they didn't develop themselves in the fruit.
And that's why they couldn't finish strong.
If you want to finish strong, you've got to have both the fruit and the gifts of the Spirit.
And the doorway is being baptized in the Holy Spirit with the evidence of speaking in tongues.
Word of wisdom, word of knowledge, faith, the gift of faith, healings, miracles, prophecy, discernment, tongue, and the interpretation.
Fruit for character, say it with me, fruit for character, gifts for power.
So what do we do now as we close?
It's 20 after 10.
We ask Jesus to baptize us because He's the baptizer of the Holy Spirit.
Luke 11, 13, if you being evil or natural know how to give good gifts into your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who simply
Ask Him.
So the key today, we're gonna have the prayer team come up and admit it.
I encourage you to come forward.
If you have them in baptizing the Holy Spirit, you need to be, your life will change.
I shared my testimony the first weekend.
Everything will turn around.
Your marriage, your work, conflict, stress, being overwhelmed, burdened, not knowing how to make the right decision, being led, having a vision, having all that comes.
I'm being a spirit-filled Christian.
Amen.
Would you bow your heads with me and close your eyes?
We're gonna pray a corporate prayer right now for everyone here.
Everyone online, you see Pastor?
I'm not right with God.
I need to get right with God.
I need to make sure that my sins are forgiven.
I'm on my way to heaven.
Pastor, I realize that I need God super on my natural, my marriage is falling apart, my career,
My pastor's haunting me.
I'm addicted to all these drugs and all these different things that are destroying my pastor.
I'm suicidal.
I was going to give up, but I've heard the good news today.
Wherever you might be and whatever your situation, but you say, pastor, I'm not right with God.
I want to get right with God before I leave this campus because we don't know what tomorrow holds.
So we're going to pray a corporate prayer right now.
And I want all of us to pray together to lead people to God right now.
So let's say it together, Church.
Here we go.
Heavenly Father, I repent.
I am a sinner.
I believe Jesus Christ is the Son of God that He died for me and that He rose again.
Jesus, come into my heart, come into my life.
I receive you now.
as my Lord and my Savior.
Fill me with the Holy Spirit and take my life and make a difference.
In Jesus' name, amen.
Can you look up and stand up and give God big praise right now?
Come on, let's thank you for the harvest.
Thanks for watching this week's message.
One way for you to connect your church in Iraq is through the goddess warrior classes.
These classes are designed to teach you about the culture, mission, and values of church in Iraq, and about your God-given design.
You can take these classes anytime by going to our website at COTR.org slash God is for you.
And if you want to know about all the incredible things we have here at church in Iraq, make sure to visit our website at COTR.org.
And never forget, God is for you.